[MYSTERIOUS MUSIC]
[INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC]
>> I just saw my health
deteriorating quicker
and quicker.
I was just feeling
horrible, but I
was following the
specific nutritional plan
that my coaches and
nutritionists said
were optimal for athletes
and the superior health
people of the world.
>> I was really much more
healthy than the average Joe
at that point, and I really
thought that I would have no
trouble.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> And so, when I went to the
doctor and found out I had two
cysts and a tumor,
I was stunned.
>> The doctor had recommended
that I should take animal
tranquilizers, and that's when
I realized that that's crazy.
That's nuts.
>> What I started
realizing was, wow,
I was eating with guilt
a lot of the time.
I felt like, oh, man, I
wasn't this, so I was guilty--
>> Regardless if you
think it was raw food--
>> Regardless of raw.
Whatever.
Raw, non-raw, whatever
the food, it's just like,
I shouldn't eat this
because it's bad for me.
>> At 430 pounds I used to take
four packs of Rolaids and eat
them in a day, or one
bottle of Rolaids every day.
And I'm looking for
the answer in a pill.
>> I started to lose
a lot of weight,
and everything I ate just came
out somehow, very quickly.
>> Right.
>> And I was really nauseous,
and nobody knew why,
so I just gave up.
I gave up and I stopped
eating, I stopped
drinking for six days,
because even water would
make me nauseous.
I haven't thought of
that for a long time.
I just said, well, if this
is not meant to go on, then--
because there was no answers.
Nobody could help
me that I found.
>> I could just literally feel
the life ebbing out of me.
I weighed 430 pounds.
I had no energy to do anything.
>> I'd always been
low on energy.
My mother had cancer, my father
had chronic fatigue syndrome,
so I was always struggling.
I got addicted to stimulants
big style, because they're
a way of getting a
little bit of energy
to just get through
the day, right?
Up until my mid-20s I was
happy just go along, slowly
depleting myself.
There was no one saying,
you're low on energy?
Step by step, he's what you do.
>> My uncle died
within three years.
My mom struggled for nine
years, finally ending
with a bone marrow
transplant that [INAUDIBLE]..
So it was really
painful to watch that,
knowing deep inside that
that there was a way.
There was a way
to heal ourselves.
There's a way.
We shouldn't be suffering.
>> To me, raw food means food
in its most natural state,
without heat or without going
through any type of a process,
which means that if you pull
a carrot out of the ground,
and then you start munching on
it like Bugs Bunny that's raw.
As soon as you take that
carrot into the kitchen
and you throw it into a steamer,
you apply heat and saute it,
then it becomes no longer raw.
Hey, that's me!
My name's Seth, and most people
consider me an average Joe.
And don't get me wrong,
there's nothing wrong
with being average,
but it's not really
what I saw myself doing
when I was younger.
In fact, my
18-year-old self could
see how average
I'd become at 30,
I think he'd have a
real problem with it.
And understand, I know I
don't have diabetes yet,
and I don't have cancer yet, and
I don't have heart disease yet,
and I'm not obese, but I
am feeling pretty rough.
At 30 years old, I can't
make it through the day
without wanting to take
a nap, and my body aches,
my hair's thinning, sex drive's
kind of going down the toilet,
if you know what I mean.
So this is average?
So I definitely
don't be average.
There's got to be a
better Seth out there.
And so that's where this
experiment comes in.
I figured if I don't want the
standard American diseases,
I got to stop eating the
standard American diet.
So I'm switching to raw food,
raw living food, for 60 days.
See what that does.
Tell you what?
I'm excited about seeing
how much better I can be.
You know, since we
started thinking
about the idea of going
60 days completely raw,
I've had a lot of very
incredulous people asking me,
why in the world
would you do that?
Why do you want to make
such a drastic change?
You know, as I start
thinking about it,
the reason I want to make
such a drastic change really
has to do with not feeling
shiny, and not feeling
in any way, shape or form,
the version of myself
that I know I can be and
I envision myself being.
I'm 30 years old, and I've
been through a lot of garbage
in the last seven years.
While I've been
incredibly blessed
with an amazing relationship
with my wife Lindsay,
and all that's brought to
me, I've dealt with a divorce
before Lindsay, and I dealt
with abandonment issues
that I've had passed
down from my father
when my parents got divorced,
now feeling that that was being
passed on to my daughter Piper.
And then not being able to see
her as often as I wanted to
was something-- it just
started bringing up hate.
It started bringing up a
lot of things inside of me
that I never knew were there.
And so, I started dealing with
familial issues, anger issues,
and stuff like that.
And the intention of this is
to see if cleaning up my food,
and cleaning up
that aspect of it
is going to clean
up everything else.
I want to knock this
dirt and this muck off
of my relationships, knock
this muck and dirt off
of everything that's not doing
what it's supposed to do,
and become shiny again.
And I don't know.
I have no idea if
this is going to work,
but I want to gain
enlightenment.
And I was told that you can do
it through changing your diet,
so I wanted a better
version of myself,
and I wanted to be able to
focus on the things that
are important to me.
And through this 60-day
journey, I'm hoping to do that.
I'm hoping to get enlightenment,
and also to get healthier.
This is what I'm changing.
I really don't feel like
being average anymore.
So I thought going raw probably
wasn't going to be real easy.
So to get a little help
on this experiment,
I thought I'd call
in some big guns.
First call, I gave
Russell James a ring,
world-renowned Raw Chef.
Next guy I call in was
Paul Risse, like a cowboy.
Who is that tall drink of water?
That's my younger
brother, Daniel.
I like to call him the director.
Penni Shelton's
my raw food momma.
Every time I call,
she answers the phone
and helps me through my dilemma.
And now we've got Dave
the Raw Food Trucker.
He's a networker, and I am
happy to call him a friend.
And that leads us to
our doctor, Dr. Tibbels.
>> Hello sir.
>> Sir.
>> Dr. Tibbels is going to
administer our pre and post raw
food medical tests.
>> Well, tell me what you're
hoping to learn with this
little experiment you're doing.
>> Doctor Tibbels
asked a good question.
And really the answer is simple,
I just want to feel better.
I don't want to get
sick all the time.
I don't want to be
tired all the time.
I don't want to be average.
I don't want to get an
average American disease.
And I want to see if raw
foods will help me with that.
>> Time to Shine, buddy.
>> What am I going
to do with this?
>> You know what to do.
You know what to do.
Enjoy.
[LAUGHTER]
>> You can take that yourself.
>> Where do I take it?
>> What do you have?
>> I have a sperm
sample, Daniel.
>> Thank you.
>> Let me draw you over here.
>> Now, I've given blood for
numerous reasons in the past.
Say, life insurance,
just trying to do my part
to give to the blood bank,
and it's never ended well.
In fact, there's
never been a time
where I haven't passed out.
Occasionally, I
become incontinent.
Let's hope that
doesn't happen here.
>> Almost done.
>> Oh no.
>> OK.
It's OK.
>> I'm goin'.
>> Come back.
Talk to us.
>> We're done.
>> Seth?
>> We're almost done.
>> Go on then.
Take some breaths.
>> Come on, talk to me.
>> Seth?
>> Talk to us.
>> Can you hear me?
>> You're there.
>> You're OK.
>> Take some nice
deep breaths for me.
>> There you go.
>> And he's back!
>> Whoa.
>> I think those maybe--
>> Whoa!
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Go slow on that, because
sometimes it'll make you sick.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> To go from little experience,
to all raw in 60 days is really
going to bring up some stuff
that will be interesting to be
part of.
You're up in the game as
far as food is concerned.
You know, it's very
cheap to eat rubbish.
And unfortunately, the
system is set up in a way
that broccoli is more expensive
than a burger, you know?
And it's no wonder that
a lot of these families
with very small incomes resort
to feeding their family--
>> McDonald's.
>> Yeah.
You can feed a whole family
of four on a few bucks.
>> So before I got started
in this experiment,
I wanted to immerse myself
into raw food and the raw food
community.
Penny and Russell told me
about this conference that
was going on out in California.
So loaded down with nothing but
a camera and a backpack, Daniel
and I headed to California.
There we are, landed in
beautiful sunny Southern
California, headed to the
Longevity Now Conference.
And we have no appointments.
We have no tickets.
Wonder what we're
going to come up.
Right now!
>> Raw interview take 1.
>> Went from eating a
healthy organic diet,
to a vegetarian diet, to eating
a vegan diet in a kind of--
>> Natural progression.
>> Raw definitely is something
that I don't know if it works
for everybody.
It's definitely working for us.
>> What's more intimate
than that which you put
in your body?
Right?
You really think about
it, and so food really
is a sacred thing.
>> I've been traveling around
the world doing raw food
for the past six years.
Really helping to support
people in their health journey,
and changing their lives.
And also learning
a lot about myself
and my own personal health--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> So here we are
at the airport, LAX,
boarding the plane
to go back to Dallas.
We've been here at the
Longevity Now Conference.
And you know, the original
plan for this documentary
was for me to just
be the photographer,
but being at this conference and
hearing everyone's testimonies,
and everyone is so
full of life, I mean,
I've got to get a
piece of the life
that all these
people are living.
>> Dr. Tibbels rang us up
and let me know that the test
results are in.
So now, it's time to
go check them out.
>> The negative thing is
you have some significant
deficiencies.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Probably the saddest thing is
that it's not that surprising.
Most people living the
average American life will
have significant deficiencies,
but they'll never know it,
because they're not
going to feel bad enough
to go seek it out--
>> Until they have
a heart attack.
a big problem.
>> I was deficient in quite a
few very important nutrients
vitamins and minerals, starting
with vitamin B12, vitamin D,
zinc, magnesium, vitamin
C, and vitamin E.
So the conclusion of my
initial results shows me to be
deficient in B12, which
is a little shocking,
because supposedly you're
supposed to be able to get
a lot of B12 from meat,
and dairy, and poultry,
and that's all I've been
eating for the last 90 days.
Next up is vitamin D,
and it's no shock here,
because 80% of Americans are
deficient in vitamin D. When
you don't have
enough vitamin D, it
leads to high blood pressure,
depression, weakness, fatigue,
and soft bones and teeth.
Not having enough
zinc probably has more
to do with the soil depletion of
our commercial farming industry
than it does with anything
else, but because zinc
is so important for the
production of testosterone
and a lot of sexual
functions, I sure
would like to see
this one go up.
I'm low on magnesium,
and that's troubling
because magnesium is responsible
for over 300 chemical reactions
in the body.
I mean, this thing keeps
our heart beating steady.
On vitamin C's
resume is the ability
to build collagen.
Without vitamin C,
we'd have a bunch
of flabby noses,
and flabby bones,
and saggy skin.
So I probably get a
little more vitamin C,
and this just comes from
eating more vegetables.
Vitamin E is only
found in plants.
And because vitamin E is
so essential in getting rid
of free radicals, it will
help ward off my body
from the big C--
cancer.
>> And then you show a deficient
total antioxidant function,
which is just a measure of how
well your body deals with free
radicals.
The fact that this is average,
that this is somewhat normal,
is sickening.
>> That's my point, yeah.
>> And normal is
not the right word.
It's not normal.
This isn't how we were
meant to function.
With the right lifestyle,
and the right environment,
with the right
fuel, you wouldn't
have these deficiencies.
So it's not normal,
but it's common.
Your testosterone is low.
It could be low normal, and
I would tell you it's low
and it needs to be
addressed, because normal
doesn't mean much.
You're way below optimal.
You're way low even based on
traditional medical standards.
Way low.
Profoundly low.
The reference range from
this lab is 250 to 836.
You could be in a
low end of that,
and I would tell you that
that's not normal for your age
at all, OK?
So you can have a
number of 300, 400,
and I would tell you, eh, that's
not so hot at 30 years old.
>> So what doc's telling me is
that a 30-year-old with normal
testosterone levels would
be right around 600.
>> Your number,
your total, is 146.
You're free
testosterone, and I'll
give you the normal
reference range is 40 to 250,
and yours is 24.
>> This is grossly bad.
>> Yeah.
Any physician who checked
your levels would say,
this guy has
hypogonadism officially.
It's not a difficult diagnosis.
It's not a stretch.
>> What does that mean?
>> You have
low-functioning testicles,
low functioning production
of testosterone for your age.
Traditionally, you
would come to a doctor,
and they would see this,
and they would replace it.
You'd be on
testosterone replacement
probably for the rest of
your life to some degree.
It's an injection.
It's an injection once a
week, and after some time,
there are other options.
You can do topical gels.
You can do insertable pellets.
Things like that.
>> Insertable pellets?
>> Only if you want.
>> I don't want!
[LAUGHTER]
>> The list is endless in
terms of subjective things,
and things that you may feel bad
about when the testosterone is
low.
The long-term health
risks are also endless.
As I mentioned, brain function,
cardiovascular health,
prostate.
So either way,
it'll be addressed.
Because these are numbers
that if these don't normalize
significantly, which
to be honest with you,
I'll be surprised if they do.
I hope that they do,
but I'll be surprised.
>> Do you mean through the diet?
Through the raw food?
>> If diet change alone
normalizes these numbers,
then you have a real
significant result.
I would be very surprised.
If you can normalize
this, you will
have astounded me, and
probably a lot of other people.
>> The scariest thing I heard
was the word "hypogonadism."
I don't know exactly
what that means,
but it sounds really
scary, and it's
dealing with a part of
my body I'd rather not
take a chance on.
So here's to hoping raw
foods does the trick.
>> It just kept progressing
worse, and worse, and worse.
And it got so bad, Seth,
that I was almost immobile.
I really came to a
point in my life right
where I was hopeless.
I literally felt if I continue
on this downward slide
that I'm going to die.
>> We were about eating
fried chicken on Sundays,
eating pork chops
on Thursday nights.
>> So you had a set menu?
>> Hot dogs and
macaroni and cheese,
that was the standard
when I was really young.
>> Standard American diet.
>> If I drop everything I've
been doing for the past 25
years and start this path,
that's going pretty hard.
>> Shock your body.
>> Yeah, it's going
to shock my body.
So I became more
conscious and aware
of what it felt like to taste
the foods that were societally
given to me as my diet.
And as I did that, I just
gained such awareness,
because that food does
actually not work right.
It doesn't work.
You chew it in
your mouth, and you
see that it just doesn't fit.
It doesn't give you energy.
>> So you made a switch
from just vegetarian,
kind of tinkering
with that whole thing.
>> Predominantly vegetarian.
Ate a healthy diet
in general terms.
Took vitamins each day.
Overnight went to a raw, vegan,
organic, fresh food, life food
diet, which I don't recommend
for most people to do,
because it can be a little
bit traumatic for me.
>> Sure.
That's what I'm about to do,
so it's a vote of confidence
there.
[LAUGHTER]
>> I say transition into
it gently if you can.
>> Now that the results are in,
and hypogonadism works lurks
along with some other
problems, it's time to head
to the grocery store where we're
going to fill our kitchen with
a good, yummy,
raw, living foods.
>> See it's raw walnuts.
>> It says raw?
>> What are we up to in here?
Just gathering some raw food.
>> That's it.
We're going to make some nice
candy nuts for our salads.
[INAUDIBLE]
You know what else is
a really good snack?
Pink Lady.
>> I went into my kitchen
and I threw every thing away
in the kitchen--
all the condiments, all
the flours, all the sugars,
all the cereals, everything
in the refrigerator.
Even if there was fruits
and vegetables in there,
I threw everything away.
It was the process of releasing
that and starting anew,
and that's why I did that.
And I drove to the
store, and I bought
organic fruits and
organic vegetables,
and I haven't turned back since.
>> All right, Lindsey and I
are about to do a fridge clean
and a pantry clean to get
rid of all of our foods that
aren't raw, so we're
not tempted by them.
That's a cream cheese.
>> Gone.
>> Butter.
Spinach artichoke dip
with some [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Gone.
>> Got a brand new
thing of tomato ketchup.
Tabasco, spicy brown
mustard, Greek yogurt,
bagels, block of
sharp, sharp cheddar,
turkey bacon, Eggos, crispy
thin crust four cheese,
chocolate cookies, GO Lean
crisp, Log Cabin, Swiss Miss,
Minute Rice.
So I've got my
food squared away.
Got the bad food out,
I've got the good food in.
Now I need to get
my kitchen set up
the way a raw chef would
have his kitchen set up.
So who do we call?
The Raw Chef.
>> So the first thing I would
definitely advise is a juicer.
It's kind of a must.
>> You're going to be
suggesting that I juice a lot?
>> Yeah, because juice is
the easiest way to just get
nutrients straight
into your bloodstream.
You're getting some very
high level of nutrition.
I actually had this made up
especially for this countertop.
Normally this is the hob,
which obviously I don't use.
>> The hob?
>> Hob.
>> Do you know what a hob is?
Never heard of a hob.
>> Do you mean the stovetop?
>> A stove top, yeah.
>> I know this thing.
I've got one of these.
>> Oh, that's great.
Yeah, green smoothies is
going to be another staple.
And then food processor,
really useful.
You've got to do that.
Dehydrator.
I've got my teas here.
It's nice to be able to have
something hot, you know?
>> Look at this.
He has stepladders
for his stuff in here.
>> They are great.
I'm not going to
back down on this.
>> I mean, I wouldn't even know
there was more tea back there
stepladders weren't there.
>> Right.
>> Exactly.
I mean, it's a big problem.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Honey?
>> Yes.
>> So you're not vegan?
>> No.
I know a lot of people that
consider themselves vegan
and still eat honey.
>> You know it's bee puke?
>> Yeah, I do.
Yeah.
[LAUGHS]
>> Honey is delicious.
>> And this is the DNA
that I've been trying out.
The amino acid complex.
>> Amino acid complex?
I mean, is it just a
bunch of amino acids?
>> Exactly, yeah.
Like we're talking
with a protein?
Most people think
you need to eat
direct protein to get protein.
>> So that's like a protein
powder, but it's not protein.
>> It's not protein.
It's actually the amino
acids which allow your body
to build protein.
>> And you suggest
me maybe trying that?
>> Yeah, it seems like it's
pretty effective at the moment.
>> What have we got?
>> A package in the mail.
I believe it is my DNA.
>> There it is.
>> That is going to be the only
supplement that I take besides
raw food.
>> Tell me a little bit
more about that stuff.
>> I don't know.
This is what Russell had.
>> Down the hatch.
All of them.
>> Do you think I should
go for all of them?
>> If you're like
mom, you sure can.
>> Let's see.
Gone-zo.
>> Like nothing.
>> Gone-zo.
>> I didn't start
out eating raw.
In fact, I took three
years to transition.
>> OK.
>> For me, it was a
lifelong transition.
So I didn't want to just
go cold turkey so that I
would flip back at some point.
I wanted to do this forever.
>> There's definitely raw foods
can be cleansing on the system,
if someone who's had a lot
of processed foods and stuff,
it's a good way to cleanse.
And it's a good way to find
out once you've cleansed,
how to start rebuilding.
Some people go too far on raw
and cleanse, cleanse, cleanse,
and then they look sick.
>> Yeah.
>> So you can go too far.
There's definitely an ebb.
>> Yeah, it's a
delicate balance.
Definitely. like all things.
>> And it's important
not to make it too big,
because if somebody
looks and says, OK,
how do I changed my diet?
Does that mean I have
to change everything,
have to cut everything out,
I can never do this again?
It's not about rules.
It's not about never.
It's to take one thing in
your life that's not working.
If every time you eat red meat,
or if you would try and have
a piece of organic meat--
I mean, I don't eat
meat, but if I say,
you shouldn't do
all these things,
a person's going to
turn the other way.
Just try something a little bit
better in your area of comfort,
and once you tackle
that then add onto that,
and so on and so forth.
>> I lasted is six days
on the juice feast,
and I was gagging
from the juice.
On the seventh day
couldn't drink the juice.
I started actually
throwing up on the juice.
I couldn't handle the taste.
My body was just so--
>> Rejecting it.
>> Well, yeah.
Realize that I was eating
three pounds of red meat a day
when I went raw.
I was eating three two-pound
blocks of toma cheese a week,
I was drinking two
two-liter Diet Cokes a day.
>> When he went through the
drive-through it wasn't just
a supersized meal, it was five
quarter-pounders with cheese,
Biggie fries, Biggie soda.
>> Yeah, no kidding.
>> Bye.
>> All right.
First day on the raw.
You see here, you've got
our Holy Moly Granoli.
>> How was that eating
raw right there?
>> Tasty.
A good meal before I
head off to my daily job.
I'm feeling pretty
excited actually.
A little eager to be
past the stage of what
people tell me the
first couple weeks.
Usually you're detoxing.
Usually you're craving,
hungry, and I don't really
want to deal with that.
The dream begins.
So day one in the books.
Day two in the morning, I
get an email from Russell.
He's telling me to look at
this video of the RawBrahs made
with this guy named Paul Risse.
And as I start to
watch this, and I'm
watching this guy do
inverted handstand push ups
I realize there's
no way he's raw.
I mean, where does
he get his protein?
How is a guy able to do
Superman push ups on a raw diet?
Well, he's raw.
His name's Paul Risse.
So intrigued, Daniel,
Lindsay, and I, well,
we loaded up the car
and headed to the Cowboy
Capital of the World--
Stephenville, Texas.
How do you feel about
being in the Cowboy
Capital of the World?
>> I don't know what
to think right now.
>> There.
It's famous barbecue pit.
That's a place to
eat a bunch of meat.
>> Seth.
>> Paul Risse.
>> Paul, nice to meet you.
This is my wife Lindsay.
>> Lindsay?
Pleasure.
>> Nice to meet you.
>> I'm Daniel.
>> This is Daniel.
>> Daniel?
>> My brother.
>> Nice to meet you.
>> Your brother, huh?
>> Yeah.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Cowboy Capital, Dairy
Capital, and UFO Capital,
so put those three things in a
blender and see what you get,
you know?
>> We're here at Barefoot
Market where Paul Risse works.
He's got his own little corner
of the health food store
where he prepares lovely
raw foods, and juices,
and all kinds of goodies.
>> It has pecan butter, and
coconut, and [INAUDIBLE] honey.
You got to know
honey is part of--
>> Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
>> Linds, come eat
some wheat grass.
>> Would you like
some wheat grass, sir?
>> I'd love some.
>> I've never had this.
>> Obviously, [INAUDIBLE].
>> It is good.
>> Y'all know the drill.
>> Mmm.
I like the ending flavor.
>> Raw foods is an
interesting one.
We've gone through the
whole gamut with it.
I've been in the crowds,
I've met the people,
I've been to the restaurants.
Yeah, I put myself
through the test.
It's something I'll do
for the rest of my life.
Whether or not I'll
be 100% or not,
that's kind of
irrelevant in my mind.
But I understand that
what raw foods does offer
is the highest
amount of nutrition
that you could possibly get.
There's some things you can say
specifically about raw foods.
One is it it's healing.
It's cleansing.
It's the highest amount of
nutrition you can get in food.
It's the least amount
of damage that you
can do to the Earth with the
most amount of health benefit
to your body.
Those are the
things you can say.
>> OK, so this is cacao butter
and it's liquid chocolate
basically.
And you can use it like
soap in the shower.
And it's been one of the
best things I've ever
found in the world for my skin.
It also works topically as
a source of magnesium, zinc,
iron, chromium.
>> Smells delightful too.
>> Oh, it's-- yeah.
>> Look at you!
>> I have women that come here
and they're just like licking
their hand.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Normally, we always eat
because of social emotional
habit, but hardly
ever it's hunger.
It's hardly ever my body saying,
I'm really hungry for this.
It's a pretty complex thing
really for most people.
And most people, if they're
starting this and they're not
as young as y'all, they've been
eating a certain way for 30 40
years.
They taught their body
things that just put them
in a place that's
really unhealthy,
but it's also their habits.
It's like every part of
their psychological makeup
is that food.
In a lot of ways
you're asking people
to take away their best
friend, their soul comfort.
A lot of people find, instead of
a relationship, a relationship
with God, or a
relationship with a person,
they find that in food.
That's why it's
called comfort food.
The sweetness is that
lack of the relationship.
>> Yes!
All right.
Talk to us about what's in here.
>> OK.
>> I see hemp.
I see goji.
>> A little organic apple, some
local pecans blended up with
coconut oil, honey,
some Celtic sea salt,
and then some hemp seeds.
Good source of complete protein.
Then the goji berries.
Everybody knows about those.
Lots of vitamin C. Good
amino acid profile.
And it's just deliciousness
in your mouth.
>> This is really amazing.
>> It's just pure goodness.
>> What I'd like
to say is a joke--
it's kind of a joke
because it's kind of true
also is that [INAUDIBLE]
places, the Cowboy Capital
of the World and Dairy
Capital of the World
has a certain mentality.
If you threw in the UFO
Capital of the World
it kind of messes up
that mentality entirely.
So what I like to say is that
the UFOs came here before me,
so that whenever I introduce
raw foods to the community,
they're like, oh,
that's not that weird.
[LAUGHTER]
>> I just saw a UFO.
>> It's very normal.
>> Yeah.
>> There's a little
trail behind my house.
This is where I take people
to train or I train myself.
Meditate and pray out here also.
This is the pool where the
other video was shot at.
>> Are you're going
to show us that?
>> Seth, your turn.
>> No.
It's not there yet.
>> Looks pretty similar.
>> This is the
infamous workout tree.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> This is where
I do my pull ups.
And this has been
the best ab routine
that I've found,
because what it does
is it makes the weakest part
your body the strongest.
And it makes a bridge--
so this part of your
body is a bridge
that's collapsing and
opening every time.
Could you work on
your handstands?
What we're going to this come--
you can use a wall.
We're going to use
this pecan tree.
I'm just connecting and
balancing right here.
That's all I want you to do.
>> There you go.
>> See?
>> Nice.
>> Oh!
>> Oh.
[LAUGHTER]
>> What is it?
Doesn't look natural.
>> Whoa!
>> You scared me!
>> That's what I get.
Oh, gosh.
>> So what do you do for cardio?
>> I run.
>> Run?
>> Do sprints, I ride my bike,
play basketball, play Frisbee.
>> Just natural stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> So we're literally walking on
food that you buy in the store,
and this is 1,000 times
better than any onion--
onion right there.
The strawberries, and
cantaloupe, and everything
are back in there.
>> So Paul's taken us back to
this little meditation/garden
that he's put in the
back of his house,
and this is where we spend some
time praying and eating raw
vegetables.
Yummy!
>> The chia?
Oh, yeah.
This is a chia.
And I just planted some
of it in the ground,
but to harvest it
basically you're
just stripping it off
and rubbing your hands.
And there you have
beautiful little chia seeds.
The Tarahumara, they're
an Indian tribe.
They run up to 100
miles at a time.
They put a bunch of these in
their cheek, and what it does
is it slowly releases omega
3, 6, and 9, essential fatty
acids, and gives them
sustained energy.
It's also a really good
source of amino acids.
>> Well, that seems like an odd
bit of information for somebody
to know, but I googled
it, and he's right.
Paul, what an
encyclopedia of knowledge!
But we are leaving
the Cowboy Capital
of the World, and just
absolutely amazing trip
that we had here.
>> And delightful food!
>> Man, that stuff we ate
up at the Barefoot Market
in Stephenville
was unbelievable.
It was awesome.
>> All right, so today, when
I got hungry and I was driving
past all the fast
food restaurants,
I honestly almost said, we'll
just do this another time.
I almost pulled into Popeyes.
And I was actually
mad, not because I
thought about
putting into Popeyes,
I was mad because I
couldn't have Popeyes.
And I thought, you know what?
It's not really worth it.
I'll just eat this
way, I'll be unhealthy,
and I'll die whenever I die.
It's no big deal, but at
least I had fun while I ate.
We came back for our
groceries and I made dinner.
We had a delightful snack
of tomatoes, avocados,
some homemade raw hummus.
>> Very delightful.
>> Really good.
>> And then, just for
a little snack here,
we're doing a little
almond butter and apples.
I'll tell you what, I'm
so happy I didn't do that.
After eating that dinner and
eating all this live food
I feel full, satiated,
but I feel really,
really, really good.
And don't feel like
I need to take a nap.
I don't feel like I
need to go to sleep.
With Paul Risse on my team,
my confidence grew even more,
and days three through
six were a breeze.
Tasty food, tons of
energy, sleeping well,
everything was going swimmingly.
Until day 7 came,
and this happened.
He came right home and
plopped himself on that bed.
>> I really don't feel like
talking to the camera, really.
>> You detoxing?
>> I think that's what it is.
It's either that or the flu.
>> Well, it
shouldn't be the flu.
Your immune system
should be up, not down.
>> [INAUDIBLE] a lot of water.
>> I needed some
help with my detox.
I talked to Paul and
Penny on the phone
and then I Skyped with Russell.
>> The more vegetable juices
you can drink the better,
because they've got all
the vitamins, and minerals,
and that kind of stuff, whereas,
the fruit doesn't have as much.
The fruit just tastes good.
Just make sure you're
drinking lots of water,
and you can ride it
out till tomorrow
and see how you get on.
You could have like a
sauna and sweat it out.
>> Hmm?
I took a really hot
bubble bath last night.
>> Oh, my goodness.
I've never had a man
tell me that before.
>> He was so
[INAUDIBLE] last night.
I'm going to take a bubble bath!
>> Did you light some candles?
He did!
[LAUGHTER]
>> Yes!
Detox is a word that's
thrown around quite a lot,
and it means different
things to different people.
To someone detox might
be just giving up alcohol
for a couple of weeks, and
they feel better from that.
I think there's lots of
different levels, you know?
If you're used to caffeine,
I see you walking around
with coffee, that's going
to probably give you
some headaches.
I mean, actually
you'll get headaches.
>> It's not probably.
It's going to happen.
>> Yeah, it's going to happen.
Yeah.
A lady in the raw
food world called
Tonya K. I don't know if
you've heard of Tonya?
She's very outgoing,
a great personality.
And she says my body is
not a discounted body.
I will not put into my
mouth and into my body, food
that doesn't support me.
A homeless guy was offered
some food by a restaurant,
and it was kind of junk
food, and he turned it down.
And the guy said, why would
you turn down this food?
And he said, well, it's junk
food, and if I ruin my body,
I don't have anywhere to live.
So there's a guy on the
street with no money,
and he's got a
standard for himself.
And it really is what
standard you set for yourself,
because you'll find a way.
If you find a way to do this--
I mean, you've got
the extra motivation
because you've got
cameras in front of you.
>> Right.
>> It's great.
>> It has to happen.
>> During the next
three days of my detox,
I spent a lot of time wrapped
up in my bed like a swaddled
little baby, or on my
knees at the toilet.
It wasn't pretty, but
at my breaking point,
on the morning of
the fourth day,
I turned the corner,
with the sun shining
bright through the windows,
and I thought I could fly.
No really.
I thought I could fly!
The most amazing
feeling I've ever felt.
>> In my work in television--
I travel all over the world--
and I was running on empty.
And I happened to have a week
back here in Santa Monica,
and I said you know,
I'm going to try
The Box at a local restaurant.
And they prepare the raw food
for you for an entire week.
And so, I was like,
OK, I'll do it.
And at the end of that
week I was coming back
from a 70-mile bike
ride, and then I
went and did a two-hour
kick ass yoga class,
and then I still had
energy to go and swim laps.
>> All in one day?
>> Yeah, this is all
in one afternoon.
And that's when I was like,
OK, what is going on here?
This is something.
This is something that other
people need to figure out.
>> Well, PR came up to
visit for the weekend.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> Now today is a wonderful
day, in case you didn't know.
We got a package of goodies
from Nutiva this morning.
We got coconut oil here,
which is always helpful.
We got some hemp seed
that I'll be spending
a lot of time munching on.
We've got all this
lovely chia seed.
Life is good.
10 days in, feeling
good, good, good.
PR just made us some
chia porridge right here.
Yum, yum, yum!
>> Hmm.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> That is going to ignite
my life until around 2:00
o'clock, in which time I will
consume something else that
will make me sustain
till about 5:00 o'clock.
So there you have it.
>> Oh!
Lindsay doesn't like it.
>> No, I do.
I actually like this
better than yesterday's
>> That's because Paul made it.
[LAUGHTER]
>> What we just got through
doing, Lindsay, Seth, you,
and I, we just got
through doing a workout.
And this has been one
week exactly since we
met in Stephenville Texas.
And today, after one week--
Seth went through a
really intense detox.
He e-mailed me a couple
of times, and he said,
my head is pounding.
I feel like crap.
Is this normal?
And it is for him.
He is really fast metabolism,
so his cleansing period
was really fast
and really intense.
But he had a breakthrough, and
he's felt better and better
since then.
Initially we could do about
10, and we've worked our way up
to 15 on the core exercises.
And after one week, it
wasn't a perfect attempt
at a Superman push up, but
he got his entire body off.
So it was one legal
Superman push up.
And so, for most people
they can never do that,
and after one week of eating
raw foods, and training,
and even the positive mindset--
getting out here in the sun--
he did one.
And so, it's just going to be
continual progress forward.
We're going to help him with
some of his shoulder injuries,
tighten this core up,
and I look forward
to seeing the further progress.
And Lindsay, she kind
of puts everybody
to shame with her perfect
form and perfect body,
so we're just trying
to keep up with that.
>> Another use of coconut
oil is very helpful,
as Paul here is going to
demonstrate is topical
application,
epidermal application.
Oh, it goes in the hair too.
He ain't even scared.
>> In the hair, in the eyes.
You can actually put coconut
oil in your eyes, your lips,
your cheeks, your gums.
Everything.
>> I'll tell you what?
This guy's skin is
[WHISTLES] immaculate!
This is a good morning shot.
I call it the breath of fire.
And it has every antiviral
anti-bacterial, anti-fungal
property that you
could possibly want.
And it's apple cider vinegar,
and cayenne, ginger, garlic,
and onion.
You let it marinate.
If you have anything, it
will cure what ails you.
And it'll cure you.
Even if you don't have
something, it'll cure you.
Bottom's up.
Lindsay?
>> Go for it.
>> Oh, Lindsay didn't
do it at the same time.
Lindsay just watched.
Lind, stay in here.
>> I was turning.
I just drink it?
>> Yeah.
Don't stop.
Just go.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Throw it back?
>> You can throw it back, but
just casually throw it back.
>> Just go like this.
>> Atta girl.
Yeah!
Good job!
[LAUGHTER]
I'm pretty shocked.
We just finished up a
really good workout,
and got a bunch of
the fam here partaking
in some after-workout
smoothies compliments of Paul
the Raw Beast, the Cowboy.
Brother Jake, sister Kristen,
aunt Mona, cousin Jane.
>> I don't know
where the camera is.
>> And we were just having
some fellowship, some chats,
and Paul the raw
food chef, beast,
cowboy is about to later on make
us up some Apple Bottom Gennie
Boats.
>> And hopefully plug more
information into our brains.
>> Yeah, we're going to have
some chats and some good old
fellowship conversation,
and talk about raw food
and the healing
properties of it.
Cheers.
>> Now, this is called acroyoga.
It's a really good way of
learning partner balancing,
strengthening, stabilizing.
It's really good
for communication.
So bring it below the hip bone.
And what you can do, is you can
push up with your right arm.
All right?
And what you're going to
do is drop your right leg
just a little bit and push
it up with your right arm.
Do you feel that at all?
You're going to push up
with your right foot,
and drop your left foot.
>> Oh!
Whoa!
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Nice.
>> All right.
We're done.
Ah!
>> Excellent.
[APPLAUDS] Excellent.
>> What are y'all doing in here?
>> We're making some
kimchi with lots of love.
So we tell it we love it.
>> There's so much life
happening in this kitchen.
>> Yeah, we're making
a little salad here,
just using some of the
greens that we had available.
Kale, mixed greens, and
I've got a little avo
with some spicy seed mix
and almonds, tomatoes,
red bell pepper, a little bit
of sea salt, some sesame oil.
It's going to be delicious.
>> We've talked
about that kimchi.
>> Life-chi.
And I love it!
>> With my family
making Life-chi,
it didn't take long for my
brother and his wife to teach
their kids about raw food.
Seems like they
got it figured out.
>> Raw means there's
no sweetener.
It's plain how it is.
It doesn't have chemicals.
>> Food is raw.
Food is raw.
>> Fruit?
>> Yeah.
>> OK, you eat a lot of fruit?
>> [INAUDIBLE].
Fruit-- fruitcake?
I like fruitcake.
>> There's apples, pears.
We eat lettuce, we eat zucchini.
We kind of eat
corn, but not oily.
>> The vegetables are
raw and they're healthy,
and fruit are
healthy that are raw.
[INAUDIBLE]
And we like being raw.
>> Raw food is good.
>> Mama, is it my turn?
Mama.
>> Is this for me?
I say, if we fully
believe in raw food,
live food, high
vibration food, that's
the only thing I'm going
to give my daughter.
Why would I give
her anything else?
>> Right.
>> I know a lot of people who
feed their pets organic food,
but they're out eating garbage.
>> Or putting high octane
fuel in their vehicle,
taking the best care of the
vehicle and of their bodies.
>> Or they're driving like--
>> And then eat at McDonald's?
>> Yeah, they drive in a Bentley
and they're going through Jack
in the Box.
>> We do.
We forage for our food.
We going out to nature.
There's so much food
in nature everywhere.
>> Yeah.
>> There's free food everywhere.
Wild grass, juice it, drink it.
It's so full of nutrients,
it's incredible.
He loves it.
>> That is awesome.
>> It's just so healthy.
It's full of calcium, full
of iron, full of amino acids.
It's just everything
you can possibly--
everything that's not
a steak and potato
cooked vegetable dinner.
You know, we're trying to
raise him the best we can,
and just going on intuition,
and following our instincts.
And we like him.
We give him cooked
food, he plays with it.
He doesn't know what it is.
He doesn't like it.
>> He's got to go back
to getting the smoothies.
Yeah, he loves the smoothies.
You know, we do
superfood smoothies
with all the great stuff like
hemp, and macca, and cacao,
and algaes, and
spirulina, chlorella.
>> What I do with my kids--
they wanted to buy
these tortilla chips,
these are nacho things that all
the kids were eating in school.
So I said my daughter,
sure, show me the packaging.
It had 35 to 40 ingredients.
And I said, if
you can understand
what are these 15 of
these ingredients are,
you can eat it.
She couldn't even
pronounce it, let alone--
OK.
So I took her to
Whole Foods and I
said, which one looks the
closest to that bag of chips?
We picked three different
kinds of cheddar chips,
and it had six ingredients in
it, and all the ones she knew.
Bell pepper, whatever
it was, she tasted it,
and it tasted exactly the same.
The idea is, you don't have
to deny yourself things
that you want,
but see if there's
a better way in attaining it.
>> And also I love to
eat things that are raw.
>> You do?
>> Uh-huh.
>> OK, what do you mean by raw?
>> Like raw vegetables.
Because it's more nutritious,
and when you cook it,
it loses a lot of
those nutrients.
That's why I like to eat the
raw tomatoes instead of cooked,
but not raw eggs.
>> Right?
Why?
>> Because they might
have salmonella.
>> Yeah, you're right.
>> Well, we decided it was time
for the bros to take a road
trip, and so we're going to
go to Georgia and meet up with
RawBrahs.
So Jake, Connor, Daniel,
and I jumped in the car.
[UPTEMPO MUSIC]
>> Finest quality snack foods.
>> I'll bet they're fine!
>> Is that something
we want to eat?
>> I'm not sure if the Golden
Flake has the raw section.
Atlanta, here we come.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]
>> Here we are, in the
deep South, Georgia,
at a pick your own
strawberries farm.
>> You pick 'em.
>> This is a classic
you pick 'em scenario.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Look at the sun
glistening off their pecks.
>> Kind of our
back yard out here,
so [INAUDIBLE]
good strawberries.
>> It's just really
unbelievable, just the sun,
the way it bounces
off your nipples.
[LAUGHTER]
>> A gallon of strawberry
eating competition.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Oh!
>> Two Robbie's.
Or we could go
three verses three,
or we could have
three versus four.
>> Oh, he's getting cocky.
Look at him!
[LAUGHTER]
>> I accept that challenge.
We're going to strategize here,
and we'll come back to you
in a minute and tell
you [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Here's my thought.
You don't worry about
the leaf, you just
eat it with the strawberry.
>> It's the quickest too, right?
>> You just pop and place,
pop and place, pop and place.
>> I don't know about that.
>> Bigger strawberries, too,
because they take up more room.
>> But here's the deal, one
of us has to sit out of this.
>> I say we should get down
the nitty-gritty first.
>> Yeah, like in Survivor, you
got to choose one to sit out.
>> I say we do Rochambeau.
>> I can nominate for
that, because I can handle
the camera.
>> Camerawork?
>> You know?
>> I want to beat these guys.
>> I do, too.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> So the RawBrahs have
challenged us to a strawberry
eating contest.
It's a duel, and the winner
is the first person or team
that can devour a whole
gallon of strawberries.
>> It's nothing
that we don't got.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Let's get down
to brass tacks.
>> All right.
>> Here's the Hayhurst
bros here, just doing work,
and up there you
see the RawBrahs.
>> Three, two, one, go!
[UPTEMPO BANJO MUSIC]
>> This is a close
competition, so far.
They're double-fisting
it over here.
You guys got to pick it up!
>> Hurry, hurry!
Hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry!
Hurry!
Conner's done.
Jake's done!
They're done, they're done!
Seth?
>> Oh!
Seth!
>> Please.
Please.
>> Come on!
>> What a competition!
>> Dad garnit!
That was down to the wire.
>> Down to the regurgitation!
>> RawBrahs take it.
>> Look how much strawberries
he had in his mouth.
>> Is that what was in
your mouth there, Seth?
>> He had two in his hands, and
he was trying to get another.
And I had to take it
from him, because he
was going to force those in.
>> So we got back from Atlanta
and we got a package waiting
on us.
And we had a beautiful
package from Nutiva.
Check that out.
That's a big old bag of
chia seed, right there.
Got a big ol' bag
of the hemp seeds.
We got the ol' vat
of coconut oil.
[WHISTLES]
>> Yum!
>> Nutiva just
straight hooked us up.
That's all it was.
So we're going to get started
with our morning routine
of chia porridge right now.
The UPS guy.
Supposed to get my
Green Star juicer today.
So taking Russell's
advice, I am patiently
waiting for my Green
Star to arrive, as well
as my Excalibur dehydrator.
>> He's back.
>> Who's back?
>> Ding-dong
[DOORBELL]
[KNOCKING]
>> Oh, my gosh.
That didn't take long!
>> I saw you pull up.
>> You must have flew
down those stairs!
>> It's time to
get our juice on!
Green Star.
Look how pretty this is!
This the elite.
That is a beast, my friend.
It's a happy day today.
We got our brand new dehydrated.
We're basically raw-afying our
kitchen, is what we're doing.
Excalibur was nice
enough to also provide us
with some of these
nonstick sheets that are
going to be very very, helpful.
>> We're raw-doing it.
>> We're raw-doing-- yeah,
we're raw-doing our kitchen.
>> Oh!
>> Daniel has been hard
at work in the kitchen--
>> Slaving!
>> -- making Russell James'
famous unbelievable cheesecake.
I've tasted Russell
James, Daniel.
His cheesecake.
>> I have, too.
>> You know he's The Raw Chef?
>> I do know that, and The Raw
Chef's cheesecake is what made
me want to try and make my own,
because it was so delightful.
And it calls for coconut butter,
which we only have coconut oil.
But we also have
this new product.
I've never used
this product before.
Coconut manna from Nutiva.
Like I said, I've
never used this before.
It smells amazing.
It's a butter replacement, it's
a cream cheese replacement,
any type of spread replacement.
Look at the consistency.
It's beautiful.
And we're going to use this
instead of coconut butter
in the cheesecake
recipe, and I have
a feeling it's going to
be absolutely dynamite.
>> So The Raw Chef is
here, surprise visit,
and he has a bite
ready of my cheesecake.
>> I mean, it looks impressive.
>> Here we go.
>> Ah, that flavor
comes through.
It's a very impressive
first attempt.
I mean, even if you told me
that was your fifth attempt--
>> You'd still be
impressed, wouldn't you?
>> If it was your sixth attempt,
we'd have to have words,
but attempt five--
I mean, I do that--
>> So we grabbed the family,
grabbed Russell, grabbed Paul,
we all headed down to Austin.
This is Barton Springs.
Doing a little workout, a
little Paul Risse workout--
humping a little air,
getting some sun,
hitting up daily juice, just
having a good all-around time.
You know, living life.
This is Ty?
>> Can you just say what your
farm is about and your name?
>> Ty Wolosin from
Comanche, Texas.
I manage Windy Hill Farm.
We're basically
a farm that tries
to do just about
everything, trying
to create a sustainable-type
system with everything
from vegetables, fruit, to
eggs, some goat meat, to beef.
And just trying to
basically just sustainably
connect with other
people locally.
Still have to go to
the city sometimes,
because unfortunately
rural areas in Texas
really haven't seen
the benefits of eating
organic, local, fresh food,
but we're working on it.
>> The reason I
really appreciate Ty,
is he came to Stephenville
the other day, gave a speech,
gave some of us food.
And that's something that
we're looking to promote,
is that connection
to the local farmer,
and just shortening the distance
between where the food is grown
and where you're eating it.
>> I mean, if you're just
eating McDonald's yesterday,
you go into a juice
fast today, for example,
you do that for a few days,
you're really not sure what
that's going to look
like on the other side.
So when you develop that nice
foundation of raw food balance
lifestyle, you switch
and maybe have a juice
fast later on,
somewhere midway, just
to see what it's like
for a couple of days,
then you can ease off it gently.
>> Juice fasting
begins in seven days.
I'll be doing a lot of cutting
in the next seven days.
And pretty much I'm
going to just drink juice
whenever I'm hungry.
Dave the Raw Food Trucker
doesn't have diabetes anymore,
just from juicing.
It's pretty tasty.
Yeah.
Green goodies.
So the first couple days
of juicing, a cinch.
Wasn't bad at all,
until day three.
I didn't want to
drink juice anymore.
I just want to eat this.
I'm three days in, and I'm
frustrated, and I'm mad.
I had two occasions
where I really
almost just pulled into
Chipotle and said screw it.
I had to call Paul
Risse and tell him
what I was about to do.
If tomorrow's another
day like this,
I'm done with the juice fast.
>> Paul said tomorrow by 7:00,
you should be feeling really
amazing.
>> It's just too hard.
>> You don't have
enough brain power?
>> Don't play kindergarten
games with me.
>> Just sayin' right?
>> True.
You would say that to her.
>> That's right.
So if you give in, I guess
you just have a weak brain.
>> Oh, stop.
>> I really agree
with Lindsay on this.
>> Of course you do,
because you're not doing it.
>> Hey, if this was the
other way around, Lindsay,
what would he be telling you?
>> Power through.
Your brain can overpower.
Just keep going.
Think positively.
All those things.
>> I am positive.
I'm just hungry.
That's it.
>> We're at Jack Attack's
ninth birthday party.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Thank you, everybody!
>> Wow!
>> So as everybody is having
cupcakes at the birthday party.
>> Asian salmon salad.
>> What are you having?
>> I don't know.
Some crappy juice.
Nothing but juice
for three days.
>> Oh, so he's
juice cleansing now.
>> I feel good.
Jaw bone's all sticking out.
>> Your jugular line.
>> Your lower lip
is sticking out.
>> Seth, seriously, I
haven't seen you in a long,
but you're looking good.
>> Grope him up!
>> Thanks!
>> What's in there?
>> Watermelon.
>> It has a pleasant aroma.
>> Oh.
>> I like how the watermelon
just kind of splashes in there.
>> Yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Day five of my
seven day juicing,
and I feel a lot
better this morning.
I'm excited about getting
some more juice going.
I'm excited about hitting
the next few days.
So pretty, pretty good.
So it turns out Lindsay
and Paul were right.
Days six and seven,
they were amazing.
I felt unbelievable
on the juice.
And at the end of
it, I was really
hoping Russell was
going to be right too,
about this whole
hydrocolonic thing.
>> Today, we are going to be
having colonic irrigation,
which two words,
"colonic" and "irrigation"
when you put those together,
strike fear into the heart
of many people.
But actually, I think it's
something I've done before
and I've got a
huge benefit from.
Taking care of your
intestines and your bowel
is one of the best things you
can do for your body, you know?
Now, you really got the food
sorted, you're hydrated,
you're working out, so it's just
really building up the layers
and doing this kind
of stuff as well.
How are you feeling about it?
>> Terrified.
>> That's what you've got.
If you haven't now,
you will in a moment.
>> Hey.
Seth.
>> Katherine.
Nice to meet you.
>> Very nice to meet you.
This is my brother, Daniel.
>> Hi, nice to meet you.
>> This is Russell James.
>> Nice to meet you.
Well, I'm glad to hear it.
I can't say enough
good things about it.
I'm going to lubricate this--
and it's all
vegetable-based-- and then
I'm going to pull that out
and attach this to back here.
And then, this clean water
source is going to go here.
>> So this is what is
actually being inserted?
>> Yeah, yeah.
And for guys, this is the
most comfortable system.
It's only 2 and 1/2 inches.
>> OK, so how far did she say?
Two-- two inches!
>> The water's flowing.
>> Yeah, I feel something now.
>> It probably won't start
coming out right away.
>> Tell us something.
>> It's very odd.
I feel like I'm going to poop.
>> Well, this is how we're
accountable for what we eat.
You have to carry
it around and feel
the toxicity of what you eat.
>> Oh, oh!
>> Oh!
>> Oh, my gosh!
>> Is it an explosion?
>> It's just sludgy, heavy.
>> Oh, my!
>> Cemented.
>> Did it come out, or did
it come out on the table.
>> The white foam
there is yeast.
>> No, it's just
in the [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Oh, it is?
It felt like it was coming out--
>> The fermentation of the food
that sits in the gut gets all--
>> Really?
>> It's like the foam on a
beer, and it'll float on the top
of the tube.
>> The feeling I got afterwards?
[WHISTLES] I felt light as
a feather after that oh boy.
So here we are.
About halfway through day 34.
Just finished my juice fast, and
I think I'm on the homestretch.
And I'll tell you what,
I'm happy that I'm
on this side of it.
The first week was incredibly
difficult. About day six,
I went into somewhere like
the other days kind of gelled
together.
But went into a serious
unbelievable detox,
and I'm not sure actually
translates well on film,
but I felt like I was dying.
It was horrible.
I don't want to scare
everybody away from doing this
themselves, but along
with the detox physically,
I had a lot of
things that came up,
psychological things that
started unrooting themselves.
And it felt like
I was cleaning up
a lot of emotional,
a lot of mental,
a lot of non-physical
things that were happening.
Relationships--
It was actually a dark time.
And it was almost like I had
to go through the tunnel,
because on the other side of
that, when that detox was over,
it I went from the lowest
low, almost wanting
to quit this whole thing--
hands down, I was
done, I was ready to go
to the doctor, the hospital, get
me some help, whatever it is--
right when I didn't think
I could handle any more,
I felt something that
I've never felt before.
It was the most
unbelievable experience
of just a weight lifting off me.
I felt like I'd been walking
around with 500 pounds.
So not only did all that
sludge that I had worked up
from emotional sludge, and
relationship sludge, and all
that stuff, it was gone!
And not only did I physically
feel like I could fly,
I felt like there was nothing
I couldn't accomplish.
No goal was too big, no
mission was too impossible.
No matter what the case was,
positivity out of your brain.
Nothing was impossible.
And so, that was the most
exciting part for me,
it was that I felt great, but
at the same time, mentally,
and emotionally,
and spiritually,
and relationaly, what these
people said at the Longevity
Now Conference was
actually happening,
and all this is
doing is exciting
me for the next 30 days.
I mean, I can't wait
to see what happens.
I feel like I'm growing
testosterone again.
I feel like more of a man.
I feel higher energy levels.
I'm sleeping less at night.
I'm jumping in bed
with my wife more.
And I don't know,
it's 34 days in,
and if it keeps
crescendoing like this,
I'm going to literally
be Superman by 60 days.
And you're going to
have to start filming me
as I fly from tree to
tree, because that's
what I'm going to be doing.
Finishing up the morning
smoothie for all of us here.
A lot of goodies in here.
I'm going to throw in
a little coconut water.
This is a smoothie designed
by none other than Paul
"the beast" Risse.
We've got blueberries in
here, we've got mangoes,
we've got strawberries, we've
got honey, we've got spinach,
we got hemp seed,
we got bananas.
That's called
collaborative smoothie.
Good work, sir.
>> Yeah, good job.
>> Paul has brought something
to my attention that is really
useful on a daily
basis, and that is,
if you start the day
off with a compliment--
and it doesn't even matter
what the compliment is, just
start the day off with
a compliment first thing
in the morning--
it gets the day off
to a good start.
>> I like your glasses.
>> Thank you.
>> You're doing a really
excellent job shooting today,
Daniel.
>> Thank you, Paul.
>> See how easy that is?
>> I like the way you
wear those glasses, Seth.
>> I think I'm pulling
it off pretty well.
>> And the headband, Paul?
Amazing!
>> Thank you.
It's an old T-shirt.
I didn't know what to do with
it, and now it's a headband.
>> I think you've done a great
job being the female in this
house.
>> Lindsay has made us
appreciate everything about
life.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah, she has.
>> Lindsay, you've made me
appreciate femininity in its
purest form.
>> There we go.
What about us?
>> You guys are all great--
men.
>> But specifically.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Each person.
>> OK.
>> So what we started realizing
was that really no matter where
you are, if you look close
enough you can find a little
treasure trove of goodness.
Like this place, the Main
Street Cafe in Decatur, Texas.
It's the town I grew up in,
and I didn't know this existed.
They grow all their own food
that they use in the kitchen.
Man!
The food was fresh, and
so tasty and delightful.
Is a your little salad area.
>> This is part of it, and then
we just walked by some more
tomatoes and onions.
This is pretty well done.
It's the heat set in now,
so our lettuce is bolting.
People in small little
zero lot line houses
can have a vegetable
garden like this.
>> Yeah.
>> We also have things done
in containers so people
on balconies or
apartment complex,
you can grow even in containers.
>> So really, the excuse
that, I don't have any room,
is just that.
>> Yeah.
>> And all it takes is that
person to try a tomato right
off the vine, and they'll
never buy another tomato from
Walmart.
>> Yeah.
>> And you use a lot of
this in your cuisine.
>> We use everything.
Everything that will
grow out here is used.
>> It's thrown in a dish.
>> So whatever's in season,
that's what you're going
to get.
You're going to do
some squash tomorrow.
And the Swiss chard
is still good,
>> That's as big I've seen.
It's organic.
>> Individual leaves.
That's amazing.
>> It's healthy stuff, isn't it?
>> We met Paul Risse on YouTube,
and now we got introduced
to Dara Dubinet
video on YouTube,
via penny Shelton that is.
So packed our backpacks,
jumped on a plane,
and off we went,
California bound.
We are four blocks
from the beach,
four blocks from Whole Foods.
It's a little mecca
of life right here.
Got all kinds of goodies, a
fully-equipped raw kitchen.
We are set up!
>> So I'm so delighted
to have you guys here.
I had severe adrenal
fatigue and hypothyroidism,
and raw food and the help my
doctor pretty much cured--
there's so many noises--
pretty much cured what I had.
But after a year of not
eating raw food again,
I didn't feel well.
I felt like I was
tired, I was exhausted,
I was just worn down.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Tomorrow morning we can
cut some and just juice it.
We'll just juice it.
>> Oh, yes!
>> Or tonight for
our juicing party.
>> This is the street,
and people said,
you can't plant vegetables,
other people will eat them.
They said, people will eat them.
And I said, well,
let them eat them.
>> Why not?
>> If they're hungry,
they can eat them.
No one can make us
eat the bad food.
We don't have to
fight the bad food.
We just have to make sure
we get the good food.
Is that too close?
>> No.
OK.
[LAUGHTER]
>> So you taught Seth?
>> I have nothing
to do with this.
>> Hey!
>> That's what I taught him.
>> Yeah, that's it.
>> How is it?
Looks delicious.
Kale.
>> It's a delight.
>> It's a culinary delight.
>> Again.
>> I agree with you.
It's all good.
>> All right, this is to an
amazing weekend, great food,
great conversations, and
brand new relationships.
>> Yay.
So in my opinion, cooked
food doesn't feel--
well, let me say that again.
Raw food feels better
than cooked food tastes.
That's what I learned early on.
>> We're going to Euphoria.
There you go.
>> Oh, my, my, my.
>> What do you got
there, Russell?
>> Tiger rolls.
Spicy sweet chili sauce.
>> [INAUDIBLE] sandwich.
And I got to tell you,
it's just delightful.
Try it.
[INAUDIBLE]
As luck would have it, on our
trip to see Dara, the RawBrahs
we're also in California.
So we hit the beach with
them, RawBrahs style, baby.
>> How is it?
>> Best cup of
coffee in the world.
Nothing better!
>> And this is Daniel,
and I'm Daniel's Seth.
>> A lot of work
happening over here.
>> See, the RawBrahs, we
have to be very resourceful.
So we usually take
what is left over,
and we can either
find it in the trash
or on the kitchen
counter, we'll juice it.
>> This is kryptonite to cancer.
This is cancer's kryptonite.
Beet greens.
>> So let's eat.
Let's eat kale, my friends.
>> Deja vu.
>> [INAUDIBLE] what's
he cutting up there?
>> Need flavor in
there, so get down.
Don't let him fall.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
There it is.
>> That's raw on a budget.
Nothing [INAUDIBLE].
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> What's this?
>> I think we're--
yeah sip it.
Then we're going
to challenge you.
>> Who made that?
>> Whoa, that's good stuff.
>> Let it burn!
>> Burn!
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
So with our bellies
full of juicy goodness,
it's time to head out
to Santa Monica Pier,
where they've got a
grown-man playground.
It's time to do a little workout
with the RawBrahs and Taylor
Snipes.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Keep going!
Keep going!
>> They got up too high.
I don't do the heights.
>> Last time we saw this guy
was in the strawberry fields.
Now, it's in the sand dunes.
Killing it!
Ow!
>> Well, we're doing a circuit,
but right now we're going
and doing the first four
workouts of circuit one.
That's planks.
And then we'll go
into circuit two
and we'll do a little bit more
intensive workout in that one.
>> Keep it up!
>> The RawBrahs look good.
>> Some serious shite!
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Swinging from this device
may cause blisters, rips, tears,
bumps, bruises, scrapes, gashes,
split lip, chipped teeth,
fractures, shoulder injuries,
head trauma, jammed fingers,
dizziness, dislocations,
catcalls, monkey howls, cheers,
leers, laughter, embarrassment,
addiction to pain, obsession,
depression, senses of joy,
bliss, regret, envy, hostility,
friendship, relationships,
broken heart, broken jeans,
rivalries, creativity
and memories, baby!
>> Yeah!
>> How about that?
>> We're getting down to the
'Bu, the city of the 'Bu.
While we're leaving our little
place that we're staying
that's up in the
hills of the 'Bu--
And by 'Bu, I mean Malibu.
I just figured you
probably knew that.
>> Yeah, I mean, a lot of people
probably know it as the 'Bu.
I would think.
>> I would think so.
So we're heading down
to the city of the 'Bu,
to mosey about, and
then we're headed to LA,
to go get us a little
Cafe Gratitude action.
It's going to be good.
Russell's extremely excited
about Cafe Gratitude.
>> Hey sweetie.
>> I'm doing some kind
of smoothie, [INAUDIBLE]..
>> Where do you get
that was the question.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> Whoa!
[LAUGHTER]
That curb got me.
>> Yeah.
>> Cafe Gratitude.
So it arrives.
>> You the nachos,
is that right?
>> I got the nachos.
>> What do you think of it?
Are you pleased
with your choice.
>> I feel honored.
>> Russell, how do you feel?
>> I feel fantastic.
>> What is that?
>> Really?
>> Did you enjoy yours?
>> Mine was amazing.
It's a lot of food
actually, which is great.
>> Mine was way better
than I ever even expected.
>> OK, so we just got
through training Seth.
We're making him an
after workout smoothie.
We're going to be putting
two bananas in there.
This is for Seth and I, both.
Doing two heaping
scoops of hemp seeds.
Hemp seeds are a complete
protein by themselves.
They also have a lot
of really good omegas.
We'll be adding some
mesquite powder.
I'm going to be
adding some goji, just
for a little bit of flavor.
Also some vitamin C, some
really good amino acid content.
And then some super
seed blend, which
has chia flax and brown rice,
which those amino acids combine
to form a really
good protein chain.
And we're just going to top
that off with some water.
And it's green in nature.
It's going to have a little
bit of banana for the taste,
but [INAUDIBLE] water, so
it'll be fairly low glycemic.
Just with a banana each, and
then lots of good protein,
lots of good superfoods.
Really feeding that muscle.
>> So we're on day 57,
the morning of day 57,
in beautiful New York City.
When we get back to
Texas, we're going
to take my tests again
and wrap this sucker up.
Mm!
So we came to New York
City to meet up with Dave
the Raw Food Trucker's friend.
His name's Dhru Purohit.
He's the godfather of We Like
It Raw and Give It To Me Raw.
He's also the CEO of
the Clean Program.
Now, the Clean Program is
a revolutionary program
that is designed to clean
out our bodies to where
it can begin to heal itself.
It was created by Dr. Junger.
He was throwing this rad
party in New York City.
He invited us, so we went,
and we had a great time.
>> This is it.
I'm done with my six
days of raw food.
[CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
>> A couple of things happened
while I was in New York.
Number one, I
started down the path
of conquering my
fear of heights,
and went to the top of
a very tall building
and peered over the edge, which
is something in the past I
would not be able to do.
And so today, I have a
fear of the bloodwork,
and that I am going to conquer
the passing out part today.
It's all part of this growth
process I'm going through.
Back in the saddle.
[NURSES CHATTING IN BACKGROUND]
>> Oh, this is easy.
>> Yeah, this ain't nothing.
I don't even know what's
happening over here.
Uh-oh.
Yeah.
>> You're almost done, dude.
>> Yeah?
>> Yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
You're on the last one,
so you need to hold on.
That's the last two, right?
>> I have one more.
>> Oh, son of a bitch.
>> Doing OK?
>> No.
>> Deep breath.
Breath deep for me.
>> Why is this so
difficult for me.
Come on!
[SNORTS] Oh my gosh.
What was that sound I made?
And yeah, OK, so I passed
out again, but don't fear.
Don't get all worried.
I come back here in a minute.
This isn't the end of the film.
Just give it a minute.
Yeah, yeah.
Slump over a little bit, and hi.
>> There you go.
>> Deep breaths.
>> Just relax.
>> You're OK.
>> Just take some
deep breaths for me.
>> You OK, Seth?
>> Oh, man.
>> Oh, man!
Feels bad, doesn't it?
>> Man, I wish that
wouldn't have happened.
I'm frustrated.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Why are you laughing?
Next time, I'm going to film
you getting your blood drawn.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> I don't know
what's wrong with you.
>> All right.
So what?
You were 172 before, huh?
>> 162.
>> Dang.
>> That's a lot of
weight on your frame.
>> That's a small victory
to take away from today.
With my blood drawn, and very,
very dramatically, I might add,
I'm left to ponder this
experiment in the last 60 days
that I've embarked on.
And the more I think
about it, the more
I realize it's not really at
all about those test results.
While I hope that the test
results come back good,
I do realize that it's not all
about what the doctor says,
it's what I say, and my life
has changed significantly
for the better.
Along the journey, I met
some pretty amazing people,
and without them, I
don't know if I could
have done this whole thing.
You have people
like the RawBrahs,
whose energy is boundless
and completely infectious.
When you're around the RawBrahs,
you can't help but smile.
We can't forget Dara Dubinet,
who welcomed us into her home
without knowing us, and
then instantly became
a raw food muse.
I'll tell you what, her mushroom
tonics are something special.
And then we have Sir Russell
James, who hails from England.
This guy's wit, food,
and accent are exquisite.
But above that, he's
a wonderful friend,
and, man, am I glad I know him.
Paul Risse, encyclopedia
of all things good.
What an amazing guy.
Just a soft, still
presence, and I'm
very pleased that I get to call
you a friend for a long time.
And of course, the
lovely penny Shelton,
who was always there to
help out with anything.
I mean what a servant's
heart this lady has.
Not to mention the fact
that her gorgeous hair
and her dashing blue eyes match
her unbelievably beautiful
heart.
Dave the Raw Food
Trucker, thank you
so much for your diligent
work in connecting us to some
of the top people in raw food.
You're an amazing guy.
And I could go on, and on,
and on with all the people
that I've met, but you've
touched my life immensely,
and I'm very, very thankful.
>> OK.
We've got a few
points of interest.
You were deficient in
B12 when you started,
which isn't that surprising,
a lot of people are.
And it didn't get worse, but
it also didn't get better.
>> So the big claim with vegan
diet and raw diet is that B12
just goes to the toilet.
And it didn't actually.
It stayed.
>> It stayed almost
exactly the same.
The things that did improve
on the micronutrient side
were your zinc
went from deficient
to normal, and your magnesium.
Those are two minerals that are
incredibly important in terms
of reactions in your body, so
pretty cool to see magnesium
and zinc go to normal.
>> And the other vitamins that
I was deficient in were D and C.
And not only did they
go up, they went way up.
>> I think one that you guys
will be most excited about is
the Spectrox test, which is
a measurement of antioxidant
activity.
>> Yes.
>> So this is, how does your
body handle oxidative stress,
which you were deficient
in when you started.
>> So I was low in the ability
to get rid of free radicals,
and toxins, and stuff
that were happening.
>> Yeah.
>> So part of this, my body was
not getting rid of the things
it needed to get rid of?
>> Not adequately.
It didn't have the
capacity to do that.
And now you do.
>> And it went past the normal--
>> Past the normal.
Past adequate to
more than adequate.
>> That's awesome.
My main concern is
going into this where
obviously the concern you had.
I had concern with the
motility of my sperm,
and also the testosterone level.
>> OK.
Let's address that.
I think that that is probably
the most incredible improvement
that you made, an almost
calls into question,
what's going on here?
Because as you recall, when
we tested you initially,
your testosterone
levels were very low.
Your initial total
testosterone was 146, which
by definition is hypogonadism.
Your free and weakly
bound testosterone levels,
which is honestly a more
important number, was 24.
Also very low.
Your total went from 146 to 371.
So it went up about
more than 100%.
>> Hey, did you guys catch that?
100% increase in 60 days.
That would put the score at
Average Joe, one, hypogonadism,
zero.
>> And that takes it
into the normal range.
So you went from--
>> So they do work, essentially.
>> Yeah, I mean, you're
making testosterone, at least.
And you were making
a little bit before.
You're free plus
weakly-bound, which
is honestly the more important
number, went from 24 to 81.
So that went up
by more than 200%.
>> Boom!
200%.
Take that hypogonadism.
That's Average Joe,
two, hypogonadism, zero.
>> So let's just say, it
is primary hypogonadism,
and your testes aren't
making testosterone.
Is changing your diet
going to fix that?
In my opinion, no.
At the time, I was,
OK, I mean, you
can do whatever you
want with your diet,
but it's not going
to normalize this.
And that was my honest opinion.
Had I not seen, been
present, drawn these labs,
sent them off with
our lab myself,
the numbers really are dramatic
enough to even question it.
Is this something like did
you draw your wife's blood
and send it in for a
testosterone level?
>> The first time?
>> And then, was something else
going on trying to fabricate
some numbers?
But I can say with all
honesty and integrity
that I saw this blood drawn,
we sent it to our lab,
and outside of some lab
error, this is legitimate.
>> That's huge.
What about the motility?
>> Basically, mortality
is a measure of activity
of your sperm.
If your sperm is not motile,
then it's not going anywhere.
It's not going to do the job.
And you're motility
improved by 33%.
I honestly would expect these
numbers and results to be
even better as time went on.
This is 60 short days.
And I'm honestly very
surprised that at 60 days,
you were able to eliminate
a couple deficiencies,
and then obviously the
miracle testosterone levels.
But I can say in this
case, in this one person,
I've seen something pretty
dramatic and amazing
that I didn't expect.
It's very interesting and
warrants looking into it more.
I would love to have 100
people do the same thing,
and let's see what the
results are and confirm it.
I may be the next contestant.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Nice.
>> I first met Seth
earlier this year,
and we just became
instant friends basically.
And he didn't know
anything about me,
and we ended up talking,
and I shared with him
that I'd written a book
called Raw Food Cleanse, which
he wanted me to show.
At the beginning,
I really didn't
perceive him to be someone who
had a lot of health problems.
I mean, he wasn't obese.
But then after hearing
about the test results
and finding out
that there actually
were some real
legitimate issues,
and then watching how just
making that shift in his diet
has made such a tremendous
impact on the test results,
I mean, it's just blown me away.
>> So what we have
here is completion.
This is my exit interview.
And I have to say, that in
the beginning of this process,
I thought probably food would
clear up some of the problems.
I thought obviously food would
do something positive for me,
but this documentary
and this journey
became so much
more than the food.
First and foremost, the test
results, they were huge.
They were amazing.
I'm happy that I had such
low testosterone, because
of the result of
showing 60 days later,
of nothing but raw
living foods, was
able to create a 150%, 200%
increase in testosterone,
that blows my mind.
That's nothing
short of a miracle.
But it's not a miracle,
because it's the food,
and it's wonderful.
Then the other test
results that increased,
I mean, I know it's true,
because I feel amazing.
I feel 1,000 times better.
There was a discovery period,
not only with learning
I had low testosterone, and
learning that my body couldn't
get rid of free radicals, but
there was a discovery process
within my relationships.
I started realizing I had
issues with certain people,
and there was anger problems
that I never knew I had.
And all of that stuff, while the
discovery part was difficult--
it was hard to hear that
I had low testosterone.
It was hard to hear that
I had anger problems.
But once I realized
that I could fix that,
being in this mindset,
the mental capacity that I
had because of
what I was eating,
allowed me to handle every
situation that I had.
I was healed of anger, healed
of relationship problems.
And the knowledge
that I garnered
from people like Paul
Risse, and Russell James,
and Penny Shelton, Dave the Raw
Food Trucker, these people that
came into my life through this
process that I'll never forget,
and that absolutely
changed my life.
And not only that,
but the community
that I was immersed in.
All the things I learned at
the Longevity Now Conference
at the very beginning of this.
All of that came
completely to fruition.
Those people are not lying.
They're telling you the truth.
I believe that once I took
a step to better my life,
and the step I took
was changing my diet
and changing what
I put into my body,
once I had made that mental
and that commitment to do
that, it was a domino effect.
Things started happening
to me that were amazing
and were very positive.
I challenge all of the Average
Joes, all the Average Janes
out there, if you want to
feel like you're actually
moving towards the perfect
version of yourself,
make a commitment to
eating raw living foods.
It will clean out your body,
it will clean out your mind,
it'll clean out
your relationships.
Things will surface, and
then you can wipe them away.
So I challenge you.
I believe raw food is a
perfect tool for cleansing.
So what I want to
do is challenge you
to any number of
days, whether it's 15,
30, 60, whatever you
feel led to do, do that.
Make that commitment, challenge
yourself to cleanse your body,
and in turn your mind,
body, soul, spirit, all
that will follow.
I believe in this
wholeheartedly.
So I challenge you
to do that, and I
believe that you
will start to become
the best person you can be.
>> It really changed our
lives for the better.
It cleansed us out
from the inside,
and is shown
through the outside.
It cleans us physically,
spiritually, mentally.
>> I'm probably in the
best shape I've ever been.
Because I used to do soccer, and
I feel like I'm in way better
shape than when I
was playing soccer.
>> A lot of my just ailments
went away, from body odor,
to acne, to whatever.
All kinds of stuff.
>> I lost 230 pounds in
one year and three months.
In six months, I
reversed colon cancer.
>> You actually start feeding
your body what it needs
to have, and the energy that you
have from that, it's amazing.
>> Tenfold from where I
was November, 7, 2010,
and I expect to have
even more energy.
I do not miss that those meals
now at all that I used to live
on, and I don't.
>> Not only did the cysts and
tumors disappear in one month,
all of my carpal tunnel
pain, joint pains,
knee pains from injuries,
back pain, disappeared,
completely vanished.
And I started losing wrinkles.
And I had friends coming
up to me and saying, wow,
you look great.
You look radiant.
What are you doing?
You're youngering, they said.
You're youngering.
And I felt so great, I just
knew there was something
to eating fresh, live food.
>> So I'm a raw, one, because
I'm petrified what happens when
I'm not, and, two, because it's
the only thing that offered
life.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Raw food, in a sentence,
has saved my life.
[UPTEMPO MUSIC]